docs/building-a-form/adding-widgets-and-definitions.md, before:

# Adding widgets and definitions

There are many common fields and widgets you can use to build forms. There are common types of definitions: `schema`/`uiSchema` objects and functions that return `schema`/`uiSchema` objects. For the function versions, there is documentation within the fields for the parameters.

### In this guide

- [Common widgets](#common-widgets)
- [Common definitions](#common-definitions)

### Common widgets

These common widgets are included in the schemaform by default. Set these widgets in a config file while building your form. Some are associated with particular schema types or formats. There are additional widgets available, but the schemaform uses definitions they're included in, rather than just the field.

To use a widget, set `ui:widget` for a field to the name of the widget. Widgets are located in [/src/js/widgets](src/js/widgets).

Widget       | Default schema type or format
------------ | -------------
`ArrayCountWidget` |
`CheckboxWidget` | type: `boolean`
`CurrencyWidget` |
`DateWidget` |
`EmailWidget` |
`PhoneNumberWidget`
`RadioWidget` |
`SelectWidget` | type: `string` with an enum property
`SSNWidget` |
`TextWidget` | type: `string`
`YesNoWidget` |

### Common definitions

These definitions address form field patterns that are more complex than widgets and include common label text, validation, or field components. Definitions are located in [/src/js/definitions](src/js/definitions).

- Simple definitions are provided as `schema` and `uiSchema` objects that you can import and overwrite to customize.
- More complex definitions are functions that require certain parameters.

Available definitions are:

- [Address](#address)
- [Autosuggest](#autosuggest)
- [Bank account](#bank-account)
- [Currency](#currency)
- [Current or past dates](#current-or-past-dates)
- [Current or past month/year](#current-or-past-month-year)
- [Date](#date)
- [Date range](#date-range)
- [File upload](#file-upload)
- [Full name](#full-name)
- [Month/year](#month-year)
- [Month/year range](#month-year-range)
- [Non-required full name](#non-required-full-name)
- [Person ID](#person-id)
- [Phone](#phone)
- [Social Security Number](#social-security-number)
- [Year](#year)

##### Address

Validates a complete street address that a user types.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/address.js](src/js/definitions/address.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Functions

##### Autosuggest

A common type-ahead widget that lets a user type in values and narrow down a longer list of options.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js](src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes (for use when you are not using an `enum` in the schema)
- Function or object: Function for `uiSchema`, object for `schema`

##### Bank account

The common electronic funds transfer (EFT) account information field that collects account type (checking or savings), bank account number, and bank routing number.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/bankAccount.js](src/js/definitions/bankAccount.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

##### Currency

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currency.js](src/js/definitions/currency.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

##### Current or past dates

The common date field with current or past validation set.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js](src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Current or past month/year

The common date field without the day field and with current or past validation set.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js](src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Date

The common date field with basic date validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/date.js](src/js/definitions/date.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Date range

Two common date fields with validation to ensure they form a valid range.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/dateRange.js](src/js/definitions/dateRange.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### File upload

The file upload field. Requires a specified endpoint for the upload.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/file.js](src/js/definitions/file.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes (the same as in vets-json-schema)
- Function or object: Function for `uiSchema`, object for `schema`

### Full name

The normal name field, including first, middle, last, and suffix.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/fullName.js](src/js/definitions/fullName.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

### Month/year

The common date field, excluding day field, with basic validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/monthYear.js](src/js/definitions/monthYear.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Month/year range

Two common date fields, excluding day field, with validation to ensure the dates form a valid range.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js](src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Non-required full name

A function that takes a full name `schema` and sets its required field list to `empty`.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/nonRequiredFullName.js](src/js/definitions/nonRequiredFullName.js)
- `uiSchema`: No
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Function

### Person ID

A function that allows the user to input a form of personal identification. For example, the form can ask for a social security number and include a checkbox to specify that the user doesn't have one, allowing them to instead input a Veterans Affairs file number.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/personId.js](src/js/definitions/personId.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Function

### Phone

A phone number with basic validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/phone.js](src/js/definitions/phone.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Social Security Number

A social security number with default label text and validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/ssn.js](src/js/definitions/ssn.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

### Year

A text field that validates the current or a past year.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/year.js](src/js/definitions/year.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

[Back to *Building a Form*](building-a-form/README.md)

Commit message:

schemaform to us-forms-system

docs/building-a-form/adding-widgets-and-definitions.md, after:

# Adding widgets and definitions

There are many common fields and widgets you can use to build forms. There are common types of definitions: `schema`/`uiSchema` objects and functions that return `schema`/`uiSchema` objects. For the function versions, there is documentation within the fields for the parameters.

### In this guide

- [Common widgets](#common-widgets)
- [Common definitions](#common-definitions)

### Common widgets

These common widgets are included in the us-forms-system by default. Set these widgets in a config file while building your form. Some are associated with particular schema types or formats. There are additional widgets available, but the us-forms-system uses definitions they're included in, rather than just the field.

To use a widget, set `ui:widget` for a field to the name of the widget. Widgets are located in [/src/js/widgets](src/js/widgets).

Widget       | Default schema type or format
------------ | -------------
`ArrayCountWidget` |
`CheckboxWidget` | type: `boolean`
`CurrencyWidget` |
`DateWidget` |
`EmailWidget` |
`PhoneNumberWidget`
`RadioWidget` |
`SelectWidget` | type: `string` with an enum property
`SSNWidget` |
`TextWidget` | type: `string`
`YesNoWidget` |

### Common definitions

These definitions address form field patterns that are more complex than widgets and include common label text, validation, or field components. Definitions are located in [/src/js/definitions](src/js/definitions).

- Simple definitions are provided as `schema` and `uiSchema` objects that you can import and overwrite to customize.
- More complex definitions are functions that require certain parameters.

Available definitions are:

- [Address](#address)
- [Autosuggest](#autosuggest)
- [Bank account](#bank-account)
- [Currency](#currency)
- [Current or past dates](#current-or-past-dates)
- [Current or past month/year](#current-or-past-month-year)
- [Date](#date)
- [Date range](#date-range)
- [File upload](#file-upload)
- [Full name](#full-name)
- [Month/year](#month-year)
- [Month/year range](#month-year-range)
- [Non-required full name](#non-required-full-name)
- [Person ID](#person-id)
- [Phone](#phone)
- [Social Security Number](#social-security-number)
- [Year](#year)

##### Address

Validates a complete street address that a user types.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/address.js](src/js/definitions/address.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Functions

##### Autosuggest

A common type-ahead widget that lets a user type in values and narrow down a longer list of options.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js](src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes (for use when you are not using an `enum` in the schema)
- Function or object: Function for `uiSchema`, object for `schema`

##### Bank account

The common electronic funds transfer (EFT) account information field that collects account type (checking or savings), bank account number, and bank routing number.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/bankAccount.js](src/js/definitions/bankAccount.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

##### Currency

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currency.js](src/js/definitions/currency.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

##### Current or past dates

The common date field with current or past validation set.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js](src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Current or past month/year

The common date field without the day field and with current or past validation set.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js](src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Date

The common date field with basic date validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/date.js](src/js/definitions/date.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Date range

Two common date fields with validation to ensure they form a valid range.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/dateRange.js](src/js/definitions/dateRange.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### File upload

The file upload field. Requires a specified endpoint for the upload.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/file.js](src/js/definitions/file.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes (the same as in vets-json-schema)
- Function or object: Function for `uiSchema`, object for `schema`

### Full name

The normal name field, including first, middle, last, and suffix.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/fullName.js](src/js/definitions/fullName.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

### Month/year

The common date field, excluding day field, with basic validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/monthYear.js](src/js/definitions/monthYear.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Month/year range

Two common date fields, excluding day field, with validation to ensure the dates form a valid range.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js](src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Non-required full name

A function that takes a full name `schema` and sets its required field list to `empty`.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/nonRequiredFullName.js](src/js/definitions/nonRequiredFullName.js)
- `uiSchema`: No
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Function

### Person ID

A function that allows the user to input a form of personal identification. For example, the form can ask for a social security number and include a checkbox to specify that the user doesn't have one, allowing them to instead input a Veterans Affairs file number.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/personId.js](src/js/definitions/personId.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: Yes
- Function or object: Function

### Phone

A phone number with basic validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/phone.js](src/js/definitions/phone.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Function

### Social Security Number

A social security number with default label text and validation.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/ssn.js](src/js/definitions/ssn.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

### Year

A text field that validates the current or a past year.

- File: [/src/js/definitions/year.js](src/js/definitions/year.js)
- `uiSchema`: Yes
- `schema`: No
- Function or object: Object

[Back to *Building a Form*](building-a-form/README.md)
