docs/building-a-form/common-definitions.md, before:

:book: [*US Forms System Documentation*](../README.md) :arrow_right: [*Building a Form*](./README.md)

# Common definitions

Definitions, located in [/src/js/definitions](../../src/js/definitions), are pieces of the form config that can be dropped in to represent specific types of questions. They include features such as label text, validation functions, error messages, and rules for which widget to render.

Definitions export `schema` and `uiSchema` objects, which are functions that require certain parameters.

### Using definitions

To use a definition, import it near the top of the file you want to reference it in:

```js
import currencyConfig from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currency';
```

Then, call it to add the `schema` and `uiSchema` functions. The definition is a function that takes the title for that field, which is used to populate the 'ui:title' property in uiSchema:

```js
uiSchema: {
  ...
  currency: currencyConfig.uiSchema('Currency'),
  ...
}
schema: {
  ...
  currency: currencyConfig.schema(),
  ...
}
```

Available definitions are:

- [Autosuggest](#autosuggest)
- [Currency](#currency)
- [Current or past dates](#current-or-past-dates)
- [Current or past month/year](#current-or-past-monthyear)
- [Date](#date)
- [Date range](#date-range)
- [File upload](#file-upload)
- [Month/year](#monthyear)
- [Month/year range](#monthyear-range)
- [Phone](#phone)
- [Social Security Number](#social-security-number)
- [Year](#year)

### Autosuggest

A common type-ahead widget that lets a user type in values and narrow down a longer list of options. It is most commonly used with an `enum` of the available options as shown here. Define the uiSchema by calling the function that you import. You can pass an object with additional uiSchema properties.

```js
import { uiSchema as autosuggestUI } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/autosuggest';

function schema() {
  return {
    type: 'object'
    properties: {
      officeLocation: {
        type: 'string',
        enum: [
          'LA', 'NY', 'CH'
        ],
        enumNames: [
          'Los Angeles',
          'New York',
          'Chicago'
        ]
      }
    }
  }
},
uiSchema: {
  officeLocation: autosuggestUI(
    'Preferred Office Location',  // field title
    null,         // Promise to get options (optional)
    {             // Additional uiSchema options
      'ui:options': {
        // When labels are not provided, it uses enumNames
        labels: { }
      }
    }
  )
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js](../../src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js)

### Currency

Formats and validates a US currency field. The display includes a leading `$` character. Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.

```js
import { currencyConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currency';

uiSchema: {
  currency: currencyConfig.uiSchema('Currency')
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    currency: currencyConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/currency.js](../../src/js/definitions/currency.js)

### Current or past dates

The common date field with current or past validation set (i.e., dates in the future are not valid). Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.

```js
import { currentOrPastDateConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate';

uiSchema: {
  currentOrPastDate: currentOrPastDateConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object'
  properties: {
    currentOrPastDate: currentOrPastDateConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js](../../src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js)

### Current or past month/year

The common date field without the day field and with current or past validation set (i.e., dates in the future are not valid). Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.

```js
import { currentOrPastMonthYearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear';

uiSchema: {
  currentOrPastMonthYear: currentOrPastMonthYearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    currentOrPastMonthYear: currentOrPastMonthYearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source:  [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js](../../src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js)

### Date

The common date field with basic date validation. Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.
```js
import { dateConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/date';

uiSchema: {
  date: dateConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    date: dateConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/date.js](../../src/js/definitions/date.js)

### Date range

Two common date fields with validation to ensure they form a valid range. Call this exported function.
```js
import { dateRangeConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/dateRange';

uiSchema: {
  dateRange: dateRangeConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    dateRange: dateRangeConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/dateRange.js](../../src/js/definitions/dateRange.js)

### File upload

*Note: This is currently not functional. The file upload field requires a specified endpoint for the upload. Documentation will be updated later.*

Source: [/src/js/definitions/file.js](../../src/js/definitions/file.js)

### Month/year

The common date field, excluding day field, with basic validation. Call this exported function with the label to be displayed on the field.
```js
import { monthYearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/monthYear';

uiSchema: {
  monthYear: monthYearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    monthYear: monthYearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/monthYear.js](../../src/js/definitions/monthYear.js)

### Month/year range

Two common date fields, excluding day field, with validation to ensure the dates form a valid range. Similar to the `Date range` above but without the days. Call this exported function.
```js
import { monthYearRangeConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/monthYearRange';

uiSchema: {
  monthYearRange: monthYearRangeConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    monthYearRange: monthYearRangeConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js](../../src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js)

### Phone

A phone number with basic validation. Call this exported function, optionally passing it the label for the field (the default is "Phone").
```js
import { phoneConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/phone';

uiSchema: {
  phone: phoneConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    phone: phoneConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/phone.js](../../src/js/definitions/phone.js)

### Social Security Number

A social security number with default label text and validation. This is an object.
```js
import { ssnConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/ssn';

uiSchema: {
  ssn: ssnConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    ssn: ssnConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/ssn.js](../../src/js/definitions/ssn.js)

### Year

A text field that validates the current or a past year. This is an object.
```js
import { yearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/year';

uiSchema: {
  year: yearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    year: yearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/year.js](../../src/js/definitions/year.js)


[Back to *Building a Form*](./README.md)

Commit message:

Add and reference images for the rendered definition fields

docs/building-a-form/common-definitions.md, after:

:book: [*US Forms System Documentation*](../README.md) :arrow_right: [*Building a Form*](./README.md)

# Common definitions

Definitions, located in [/src/js/definitions](../../src/js/definitions), are pieces of the form config that can be dropped in to represent specific types of questions. They include features such as label text, validation functions, error messages, and rules for which widget to render.

Definitions export `schema` and `uiSchema` objects, which are functions that require certain parameters.

### Using definitions

To use a definition, import it near the top of the file you want to reference it in:

```js
import currencyConfig from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currency';
```

Then, call it to add the `schema` and `uiSchema` functions. The definition is a function that takes the title for that field, which is used to populate the 'ui:title' property in uiSchema:

```js
uiSchema: {
  ...
  currency: currencyConfig.uiSchema('Currency'),
  ...
}
schema: {
  ...
  currency: currencyConfig.schema(),
  ...
}
```

Available definitions are:

- [Autosuggest](#autosuggest)
- [Currency](#currency)
- [Current or past dates](#current-or-past-dates)
- [Current or past month/year](#current-or-past-monthyear)
- [Date](#date)
- [Date range](#date-range)
- [File upload](#file-upload)
- [Month/year](#monthyear)
- [Month/year range](#monthyear-range)
- [Phone](#phone)
- [Social Security Number](#social-security-number)
- [Year](#year)

### Autosuggest

A common type-ahead widget that lets a user type in values and narrow down a longer list of options. It is most commonly used with an `enum` of the available options as shown here. Define the uiSchema by calling the function that you import. You can pass an object with additional uiSchema properties.

```js
import { uiSchema as autosuggestUI } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/autosuggest';

function schema() {
  return {
    type: 'object'
    properties: {
      officeLocation: {
        type: 'string',
        enum: [
          'LA', 'NY', 'CH'
        ],
        enumNames: [
          'Los Angeles',
          'New York',
          'Chicago'
        ]
      }
    }
  }
},
uiSchema: {
  officeLocation: autosuggestUI(
    'Preferred Office Location',  // field title
    null,         // Promise to get options (optional)
    {             // Additional uiSchema options
      'ui:options': {
        // When labels are not provided, it uses enumNames
        labels: { }
      }
    }
  )
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js](../../src/js/definitions/autosuggest.js)

### Currency

Formats and validates a US currency field. The display includes a leading `$` character. Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.
![Two currency fields, one with the field selected](../images/definitions/currency.png)

```js
import { currencyConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currency';

uiSchema: {
  currency: currencyConfig.uiSchema('Currency')
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    currency: currencyConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/currency.js](../../src/js/definitions/currency.js)

### Current or past dates

The common date field with current or past validation set (i.e., dates in the future are not valid). Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.
![Four date fields, with and without focus, with an invalid year, and with valid data](../images/definitions/currentOrPastDate.png)

```js
import { currentOrPastDateConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate';

uiSchema: {
  currentOrPastDate: currentOrPastDateConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object'
  properties: {
    currentOrPastDate: currentOrPastDateConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js](../../src/js/definitions/currentOrPastDate.js)

### Current or past month/year

The common date field without the day field and with current or past validation set (i.e., dates in the future are not valid). Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.
![Three date fields, one empty, one with invalid data, and one with valid data](../images/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.png)

```js
import { currentOrPastMonthYearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear';

uiSchema: {
  currentOrPastMonthYear: currentOrPastMonthYearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    currentOrPastMonthYear: currentOrPastMonthYearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source:  [/src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js](../../src/js/definitions/currentOrPastMonthYear.js)

### Date

The common date field with basic date validation. Call this exported function and pass it the label to be used on the field.
![Two date fields, one with an invalid year](../images/definitions/date.png)

```js
import { dateConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/date';

uiSchema: {
  date: dateConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    date: dateConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/date.js](../../src/js/definitions/date.js)

### Date range

Two common date fields with validation to ensure they form a valid range. Call this exported function.
![Two date fields, signifying a date range](../images/definitions/dateRange.png)

```js
import { dateRangeConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/dateRange';

uiSchema: {
  dateRange: dateRangeConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    dateRange: dateRangeConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/dateRange.js](../../src/js/definitions/dateRange.js)

### File upload

*Note: This is currently not functional. The file upload field requires a specified endpoint for the upload. Documentation will be updated later.*

Source: [/src/js/definitions/file.js](../../src/js/definitions/file.js)

### Month/year

The common date field, excluding day field, with basic validation. Call this exported function with the label to be displayed on the field.
![Two date fields, one unfilled and one filled with a date](../images/definitions/date.png)

```js
import { monthYearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/monthYear';

uiSchema: {
  monthYear: monthYearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    monthYear: monthYearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/monthYear.js](../../src/js/definitions/monthYear.js)

### Month/year range

Two common date fields, excluding day field, with validation to ensure the dates form a valid range. Similar to the `Date range` above but without the days. Call this exported function.
![Four range fields, one empty, one with valid data, and two with invalid data](../images/definitions/monthYearRange.png)

```js
import { monthYearRangeConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/monthYearRange';

uiSchema: {
  monthYearRange: monthYearRangeConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    monthYearRange: monthYearRangeConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js](../../src/js/definitions/monthYearRange.js)

### Phone

A phone number with basic validation. Call this exported function, optionally passing it the label for the field (the default is "Phone").
![A phone field without focus, with focus, invalid data, and valid data](../images/definitions/phone.png)

```js
import { phoneConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/phone';

uiSchema: {
  phone: phoneConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    phone: phoneConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/phone.js](../../src/js/definitions/phone.js)

### Social Security Number

A social security number with default label text and validation. This is an object.
![Three social security fields, one unselected, one selected, and one with invalid data](../images/definitions/ssn.png)

```js
import { ssnConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/ssn';

uiSchema: {
  ssn: ssnConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    ssn: ssnConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/ssn.js](../../src/js/definitions/ssn.js)

### Year

A text field that validates the current or a past year. This is an object.
![Four year fields, selected, unselected, and with valid and invalid data](../images/definitions/year.png)

```js
import { yearConfig } from 'us-forms-system/lib/js/definitions/year';

uiSchema: {
  year: yearConfig.uiSchema()
},
schema: {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    year: yearConfig.schema()
  }
}
```
Source: [/src/js/definitions/year.js](../../src/js/definitions/year.js)


[Back to *Building a Form*](./README.md)
